.. include:: /../docs/shared/include/defs.rst
.. _book.changes.2021:

====
2021
====

This is the 2021 :term:`change log` for :ref:`book`. General information about
how to read and maintain this document in :ref:`dev.changes`.

2021-12-30
==========

New virtual field :class:`DelayedHtmlBox <lino.core.fields.DelayedHtmlBox>` to
the fields collection.

2021-12-xx
==========

New feature: a :class:`HtmlBox <lino.core.fields.HtmlBox>` can now be
`collapsible`. See :ref:`layouts.widget_options`.

2021-11-12
==========

New plugin :mod:`lino.modlib.search`. First use case will be :ref:`noi`.

2021-10-17
==========

.. currentmodule:: lino.core.site

Add :class:`Site` attribute :attr:`Site.use_elasticsearch` which when set to
`True` makes the class :class:`lino.core.model.Model` inherit from necessary
mixins related to ElasticSearch.

2021-10-13
==========

Add :mod:`lino.modlib.elastic` plugin (draft) for more intelligent search
capabilities.

Release to PyPI: lino, lino_react, lino_noi, lino_xl

2021-09-24
==========

Bugfix third-party auth buttons didn't work in ExtJS.
:ref:`noi` no longer uses :mod:`lino_xl.lib.votes` (we will soon add a new plugin :mod:`nicknames` instead).
New field type :class:`lino.core.fields.PreviewTextField`.

Release to PyPI: lino xl, react and noi


2021-09-19
==========

WIP in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.votes`: :meth:`get_vote_raters` and
:attr:`use_candidatures`.

notify.remove_after now in days (no longer in hours)


2021-09-18
==========

.. currentmodule:: lino.modlib.users

Optimize blogs, `display_mode` 'story', react cosmetics, use votes in noi
tickets, add third party authentication actions in :class:`SignIn` and :class:`CreateAccount`
window. Fix a breaking bug in :ref:`noi` (cannot create ticket).

Release to PyPI: xl lino react


2021-09-16
==========

Remove :class:`Actor<lino.core.actors.Actor>` attribute
:attr:`borderless_list_mode` and implement :class:`StoryElement
<lino.core.elems.StoryElement>`
as a substitute, with usage trigger `display_mode` as 'story'.

2021-09-10
==========

Add the :mod:`lino_xl.lib.votes` plugin to :ref:`noi`. Optimize how :ref:`noi`
looks for anonymous users. Fix a bug that caused :ref:`noi` to not send
notifications to all team members.

2021-09-07
==========

Cosmetic optimization: The :attr:`button_text
<lino.core.actions.Action.button_text>` of the
:attr:`LedgerRegistrable.toggle_state
<lino_xl.lib.accounting.LedgerRegistrable.toggle_state>` and
:attr:`UploadController.show_uploads
<lino.modlib.uploads.UploadController.show_uploads>` actions used unicode
symbols that weren't being rendered correctly in some browsers.

Release to pypi: lino, xl, cosi, amici, react

2021-09-03
==========

After upgrading you might need to review your :xfile:`settings.py` file: The
:attr:`max_file_size <Site.max_file_size>` and :attr:`upload_to_tpl
<Site.upload_to_tpl>` settings are now an attribute of
:class:`lino.core.site.Site`  and no longer a plugin attribute in
:mod:`lino.modlib.uploads`.

The :mod:`lino_xl.lib.bevat` plugin had some bugs in the :term:`VAT rules <VAT rule>`, and
it now can export a :term:`intra-community statement` to XML.


2021-08-28
==========

.. currentmodule:: lino_xl.lib.cal

In :mod:`lino_xl.lib.cal`, added a three new fields to :class:`Event` model:
:attr:`Event.notify_before`,  :attr:`Event.notify_unit` and
:attr:`Event.notified`. Added a scheduler function
:func:`event_notification_scheduler` to send out notifications for the scheduled
events.

2021-08-23
==========

The model :class:`VatSubjectable
<lino_xl.lib.vat.choicelists.VatSubjectable>` has a new property
:attr:`vid_manager` which is essentially a :class:`VatNumberManager
<lino_xl.lib.vat.choicelists.VatNumberManager>` instance that facilitates VAT
identification number validation, both online and local, and generation of
fake VAT identification number for demo purposes.

A new data :class:`Checker
<lino.modlib.checkdata.choicelists.Checker>` :class:`VatIdChecker
<lino_xl.lib.vat.choicelists.VatIdChecker>` on :class:`VatSubjectable
<lino_xl.lib.vat.choicelists.VatSubjectable>` is active when the plugin vat is
installed and reports non-existent VAT identification number by doing online
registry checks to the corresponding user.

These additions are available/published on (and above) `lino_xl-21.8.2
<https://pypi.org/project/lino-xl/21.8.2/>`_.

2021-08-22
==========

Release to PyPI : xl, noi and react

2021-08-19
==========

Release to PyPI : lino, xl, cosi and react

Bugfix: Lino failed to print the customer's :term:`VAT id` in :term:`sales
invoice` when using the default weasyprint template.


2021-08-18
==========

Minor optimization for registering :ref:`purchase invoices <ug.howto.purchases>`
with  partly deducible VAT: when you manually change the :attr:`vat_class` of an
invoice item, then Lino now re-computes all amounts of that item, based on the
invoices total amount and the new :term:`VAT class`.


2021-08-17
==========

Inject field `default_color` into :class:`SiteConfig
<lino.modlib.system.SiteConfig>` model from :mod:`cal <lino_xl.lib.cal>`
plugin.

2021-08-13
==========

Add a plugin attribute :attr:`lino.modlib.help.Plugin.make_help_pages`.

2021-08-11
==========

Release to pypi: lino-cosi lino-react

2021-08-09
==========

Release to pypi: lino-xl

2021-08-06
==========

Release to pypi: lino, lino-react

2021-08-05
==========

The :mod:`lino_xl.lib.invoicing` plugin now supports "periodic" invoice
generators, a new feature used in :ref:`noi` for automatically generating yearly
or monthly invoices for membership fees.  Implemented by
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.orders`.

2021-08-04
==========

Renamed to :class:`WrappedAction <lino.core.actions.WrappedAction>` from
QuickLinkAction.

Extended :class:`Action<lino.core.actions.Action>` attribute :attr:`js_handler
<lino.core.actions.Action.js_handler>` to have the possibility to have it defined
as a class method.

2021-07-30
==========

Renamed :attr:`Renderer.hide_dashboard_items
<lino.core.renderer.Renderer.hide_dashboard_items>` to
`Renderer.support_dashboard_layout`.

Release to PyPI: lino, react

2021-07-29
==========

Extended :manage:`collectstatic` to run :manage:`makehelp` as a sub task.

Added, :attr:`Kernel.lino_version <lino.core.kernel.Kernel.lino_version>`,
functionally similar to
:attr:`Kernel.code_mtime<lino.core.kernel.Kernel.code_mtime>` to use as
production site modification stamps.

Release to PyPI: lino

2021-07-25
==========

Added :meth:`Site.build_site_cache_url` and :attr:`Site.site_cache_root` to
:class:`Site <lino.core.site.Site>` object.

Also, extended the `django.contrib.staticfiles` command :manage:`collectstatic`
to build the site cache before executing :meth:`collect` on static dirs.

Release to PyPI: lino

2021-07-21
==========

.. currentmodule:: lino.modlib.users

Renamed plugin option :data:`use_verify` to :data:`allow_online_registration`.

Release to PyPI: lino


2021-07-15
==========

Release to PyPI: getlino, lino, xl, react, cosi, amici, noi


2021-07-13
==========

- Optimizations in the :term:`React front end`
- extracted help texts are now implemented by separate plugin :mod:`lino.modlib.help`.
- users.User didn't have a merge action

2021-07-03
==========

Release to PyPI: lino, xl, react, cosi, amici, noi, getlino

2021-06-23
==========

Release to PyPI: lino, xl, react, cosi, amici


2021-06-12
==========

The :attr:`lino.modlib.system.SiteConfig.pupil_guestrole` field is now
injected by the :mod:`lino_xl.lib.courses` and no longer by :ref:`voga`.

The SiteConfig detail layout in :ref:`amici` now shows the fields injected by
cal and courses.

The Help button (?) now also works in ExtJS, and it now links to the appropriate
page of the docs.

2021-06-09
==========

The email notification caused by  AjaxExceptionResponse on a production site no
longer includes the whole traceback in the message's subject.

2021-06-08
==========

:ticket:`4195` (Lost connection to MySQL server during query)
:ticket:`4194` (insert window doesn't close after submitting)

Release to PyPI: :mod:`lino` 21.6.1, :mod:`lino_react` 21.6.1.
and :mod:`lino_noi` 21.6.1.

2021-06-05
==========

Release to PyPI : lino 21.6.0, xl 21.6.0, noi 21.6.0 and react 21.6.0.



2021-05-21
==========

Release Lino 21.5.0 to PyPI.

2021-05-16
==========

Internal optimizations: :meth:`lino.core.store.StoreField.value2dict` now takes
the field name as an argument.  New utility function
:func:`lino.api.doctest.walk_store_fields`. :meth:`get_complexity_factors
<lino.utils.diag.Analyzer.get_complexity_factors>` now uses
:meth:`lino.core.actors.Actor.is_abstract`

2021-05-15
==========

New plugin option :attr:`lino.modlib.notify.mark_seen_when_sent` When this is
`True`, Lino marks notification messages as `seen` as soon as they have been
sent via email.

The default implementation of :meth:`lino.core.actors.Actor.get_table_summary`
now uses :meth:`lino.core.requests.BaseRequest.plain_toolbar_buttons`.


2021-05-03
==========

.. currentmodule:: lino.modlib.users

Added a new field :attr:`User.date_format` for all applications. New plugin
option :data:`use_verify`. :attr:`User.send_welcome_email` is no longer a window
action.

Release to PyPI: Lino 21.4.2, xl 21.4.2, Noi 21.4.1, Voga 21.4.0, Così 21.4.1

Release to PyPI: React 21.5.0

Added a new function :func:`lino.core.auth.utils.activate_social_auth_testing`,
which does what was priviously done only in  :mod:`lino_book.projects.noi1e` and
which is now used also for :mod:`lino_shop.projects.shop1`.

2021-05-01
==========

New actor attribute :attr:`lino.core.actors.Actor.params_panel_pos`.

2021-04-30
==========

New actor attribute :attr:`lino.core.actors.Actor.params_panel_pos`.

2021-04-29
==========

Release to PyPI : Lino 21.4.1, XL 21.4.1, Lino Noi 21.4.0 and React 21.4.0.

2021-04-24
==========

New mixin :class:`lino.modlib.memo.BabelPreviewable`. First use case is
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.products`, where :class:`Product` and :class:`Category` now
inherit from it. Their database structure is changed: renamed field
`description` to `body`. The read-only fields `short_preview` and `full_preview`
of :class:`lino.modlib.memo.Previewable` are now named `body_short_preview` and
`body_full_preview`.

Release to pypi: lino 21.4.0, lino-xl 21.4.0

2021-04-23
==========

The :mod:`lino_xl.lib.products` plugin now adds card and list layouts for
product, and it adds quick links.

2021-04-16
==========

:class:`lino_xl.lib.cal.MyTasks` is now sorted in ascending chronological order.

A :class:`lino_xl.lib.notes.SpecialType` now has methods :meth:`get_object` and
:meth:`set_object`.

2021-04-12
==========

Calling :func:`lino.sphinxcontrib.configure` in a Sphinx :xfile:`conf.py` file
now uses the `insipid <https://insipid-sphinx-theme.readthedocs.io>`__ theme
instead of the `pydata_sphinx_theme
<https://pydata-sphinx-theme.readthedocs.io>`__.

2021-04-08
==========

Adapted Lino to changes in Django 3.2:
Until now the value of a QuantityField was a Decimal, not a Quantity. The
Quantity class refused to get instantiated, it was just the base class for
Duration and Percentage.
But now the value of a QuantityField is no longer a
Decimal but a Quantity. The only difference between a Quantity and a Decimal is
that a Quantity has a len() in order to satisfy Django when calling
:meth:`Field.clean`.


2021-04-07
==========

Started :ticket:`4085` (A common Sphinx layout for non-tech docs like cg, hg and
sr).

2021-04-02
==========

The :class:`users.MySettings` quicklink now comes automatically with the users
plugin (:ticket:`4075`)

The :attr:`lino.core.actors.Actor.get_default_action` method is now being called
when all other standard actions have been bound.  Removed the
:class:`lino_xl.lib.accounting.Situation` table, which was no longer used. The :meth:`lino.core.plugin.Plugin.get_quicklinks` method can
now yield a `dict`.

2021-04-01
==========

New action :attr:`lino_xl.lib.contacts.Partner.import_text`. This is
not yet fool-proof. An experiment for :ticket:`4061` and :ticket:`3895`.

.. currentmodule:: lino.core.actors

.. The :attr:`Actor.hide_top_toolbar` attribute is now deprecated.  When
  application code says ``hide_top_toolbar = True``, then you should change this
  to ``hide_navigator = True``.  In ExtJS, :attr:`Actor.hide_top_toolbar` still
  causes the top toolbar to become a bottom toolbar, but React does not use it any
  more.  React mixed them up until now, but from now on now knows only at the
  :attr:`hide_navigator` attribute. Both attributes no longer exist on
  :class:`Action`.

New actor attribute :attr:`Actor.allow_delete`. We need it e.g. for
:class:`lino.modlib.system.SiteConfig`, which, indeed is not
:attr:`Actor.readonly` (because every :term:`site manager` can edit the
site parameters), but even for a :term:`site manager` it makes no sense to
delete this record.


2021-03-30
==========

:class:`lino_xl.lib.phones.ContactDetail` now inherits from
:class:`lino.mixins.periods.DateRange`, i.e.:

- added a field :attr:`lino_xl.lib.phones.ContactDetail.start_date`.
- we can now filter the contact details that are active in a given date range.


2021-03-23
==========

New database model :class:`lino_xl.lib.accounting.PaymentMethod`.
New plugin :mod:`lino_xl.lib.shopping`.

2021-03-20
==========

:attr:`lino_xl.lib.tickets.Ticket.priority` is now an `IntegerField`.  To
migrate existing priorities correctly, simply edit the :xfile:`restore.py` of
your :cmd:`pm dump2py` snapshot and change one line in the create_tickets_ticket() function:
kw.update(priority=priority) --> kw.update(priority=50-int(priority))

2021-03-08
==========

Release to PyPI :  welfare, weleup and welcht 21.3.0.  Followed by bugfix
releases  lino, welfare, weleup and welcht 21.3.1


2021-03-06
==========

:ticket:`4007`: :meth:`babelkw <lino.core.site.Site.babelkw>` now includes
:meth:`str2kw <lino.core.site.Site.str2kw>`. This avoids us to get locked by
code that still uses :meth:`babelkw`. Translators can now add translations for
new languages without having to edit the German, French and Estonian
:xfile:`.po` files. Usage: in any existing source code for which you want to
provide new translations, replace ``babelkw("name", en="foo", de=...)`` by
``babelkw("name", _("foo"), de=...)``.




2021-03-03
==========

Added `zh-hant` (traditional Chinese) to the list of supported translations for
:mod:`lino`, :mod:`lino_xl` and :mod:`lino_cosi`. Added a demo project
:mod:`lino_book.projects.cosi4`, which uses `zh-hant`. Increased the
`max_length` of :class:`lino.utils.mldbc.fields.LanguageField` from 5 to 7 in
order to support languages like `zh-hant`.  Reviewed the :ref:`dev.translate`
page.

Released to PyPI: atelier 1.1.28, lino 21.3.0, lino_xl 21.3.0 and lino_cosi
21.3.0.

https://www.lino-framework.org/dev/translate/index.html

2021-02-26
==========

Fixed :ticket:`3993` (session has no ticket).

Added a first series of primeicon icons as Sphinx `substitution definitions
<https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/ref/rst/restructuredtext.html#substitution-definitions>`__.
No we can insert the buttons |filter|, |plus|, |refresh|, |trash| and |user|
into doc pages. The doctree must use the :mod:`lino.sphinxcontrib.logo`
extension, and  the page must include a file similar to our
:file:`/shared/include/defs.rst` file.


2021-02-25
==========

Miscellaneous bugfixes and changes regarding users of type :attr:`contributor
<lino_noi.lib.noi.UserTypes.contributor>` in :ref:`noi`.

Release to PyPI : lino 21.2.5, XL 21.2.3, Noi 21.2.0.

2021-02-24
==========

Fixed :ticket:`3986`. New methods :meth:`get_request_detail_action
<lino.core.actors.Actor.get_request_detail_action>`  and
:meth:`lino.core.layouts.Layout.add_datasource` to fix a subtle problem in
:ref:`avanti`.  Also :attr:`Layout._other_datasources` is no longer a
:class:`set` but a :class:`list`. The case is covered in
:ref:`avanti.specs.get_request_detail_action`.

Release to PyPI: Lino 21.2.4 and XL 21.2.2

Fixed :ticket:`3987` (checkdata says 'SiteConfig' object has no attribute
'pupil_guestrole'). The error occurred only when the :attr:`guest_role
<lino_xl.lib.courses.Line.guest_role>` of an :term:`activity line` was empty,
that's why it slipped through the test suite.


2021-02-23
==========

Released Lino 21.2.3 and XL 21.2.1 to PyPI (to fix issues like
`this one <https://gitlab.com/lino-framework/mentori/-/jobs/1047909420>`__).

2021-02-22
==========

.. currentmodule:: lino.modlib.uploads

Optimizations in :mod:`lino.modlib.uploads`: Added new
plugin options :attr:`remove_orphaned_files <Plugin.remove_orphaned_files>`
and :attr:`max_file_size <Plugin.max_file_size>`, and two
data checkers :class:`UploadChecker` and :class:`UploadsFolderChecker`.


2021-02-17
==========

API change: Rename :class:`lino.mixins.Uploadable` to
:class:`lino.modlib.uploads.mixins.UploadBase`.

Fixed a typo bug in :class:`renderer_mixin.JsCacheRenderer` which caused Lino to
create an empty media directory "upload" (instead of "uploads") at startup. This
bug might be the cause for missing group write permission of files that were
uploaded to a production site.  If you encounter this problem, check whether
your :xfile:`uploads` directory has the sticky group bit set.

2021-02-15
==========

Optimizations for developers: New :term:`django-admin command`
:manage:`demotest` increases test coverage.  Removed :class:`WebIndexTestCase`,
which is functionally included in :manage:`demotest`. Miscellaneous cleanup and
optimizations in the test suite. Removed Django 4 deprecation warnings.

Regression danger: :meth:`lino_react.react.views.ApiElement.post` no longer
passes `http.QueryDict(request.body)` but `request.POST` as data to
:func:`action_request <lino.core.views.action_request>`.

Release to Pypi: lino-21.2.2

2021-02-14
==========

Fixed :ticket:`3968` (extjs combobox doesn't submit empty value). It is possible
that this bugfix reopens :ticket:`3653` (Learning choosers don't work in React
front end).

2021-02-13
==========

Release to PyPI: Lino, XL and Avanti.

Minor bugfixes :  SignIn failed when :attr:`lino.core.site.Site.use_ip_dict` was
not `True`.  When :class:`lino.modli.memo.PreviewableChecker` was called with
--fix, it fixed the problems but didn't report how many problems were fixed.

Fixed a regression: Insert button was missing in
:class:`lino.modlib.comments.CommentsByRFC`. All comment table summaries are now
wrapped into :meth:`html_text <lino.core.requests.BaseRequest.html_text>`,
leading to better text styling under :mod:`lino.modlib.extjs`.

New feature: you can now set a new plugin setting
:attr:`lino.modlib.comments.Plugin.emotion_range` to either "business" (default)
or "social" to select between two alternative sets of emoticons. :ref:`avanti`
uses the new "social" range, :ref:`noi` the default "business" range.

.. currentmodule:: lino.utils.test

Extend :class:`WebIndexTestCase` to use :meth:`DemoTestCase.login` instead of
Django's client :meth:`force_login`.  So now the JavaScript files are being
built for each user type, and a typo bug like :message:`AttrDict instance has no
key 'ipdict'` (in Lino 21.2.0) would no longer go undetected.

Release to PyPI: Lino and Avanti.

2021-02-12
==========

Fixed a bug in :mod:`lino.modlib.ipdict` that caused it to not report when an IP
had been blacklisted.

2021-01-29
==========

Fixed :ticket:`3948`: Lino didn't behave correctly when (a) no weekday at all
was selected (which for Lino means "any weekday"), and (b) caused an internal
server error when no recursion rule was found. This was in the
:meth:`get_next_suggested_date` of a :class:`lino.modlib.system.RecurrenceSet`.

Fixed :ticket:`3946`: When a partner is :class:`lino_xl.lib.lists.Member` of
some list, this is no longer a reason to refuse deleting the partner. When you
confirm to delete such a partner, the list memberships now get deleted as well
(in cascade).

The title of the :class:`lino_xl.lib.contacts.RolesByPerson` slave panel was
"Contact for of (name)", not very helpful.  Now it is "(name) is contact person
for". Added a custom :attr:`details_of_master_template
<lino.core.actor.Actor.details_of_master_template>`. Note that the custom
:attr:`label`, "Contact for" is also needed for situations where the master is
not known.


2021-01-17
==========

The `ipdict.Connections` table has been reimplemented as
:class:`lino.modlib.users.Sessions`.  It now uses :mod:`sessions <django.contrib.sessions>`
and therefore works also on sites with very many users. It also features a
"Kill" action to manually delete individual actions. :mod:`ipdict
<lino.modlib.ipdict>` is no longer used to show the list of active user
sessions.  The ipdict approach was not suitable for sites with very many users
because it stores every connection in an in-memory `dict`.  ipdict is used only
for detecting brute force attacks. It now removes every entry after a successful
authentication.

Internal changes: :class:`lino.core.auth.middleware.DeviceTypeMiddleware` has
been merged into :class:`lino.core.auth.middleware.WithUserMiddleware` because
it was inefficient to parse the request twice. :class:`BoundAction` has now a
:meth:`__str__` method, which is used by user warnings "No permission to run X".
Until now these warnings were irritating because the action name wasn't shown in
the browser.

2021-01-16
==========

New method :meth:`lino.modlib.ipdict.Plugin.pop_ip_record` removes an (ip
address, username) pair from the registry, and Lino uses this when receiving the
``user_logged_out`` signal.

2021-01-15
==========

.. currentmodule:: lino.api.doctest

Continued on :ticket:`1162` (A CMS using Lino). The
:mod:`lino_book.projects.cms` project now has some improvement. But it is not
finished. Internal changes: :func:`lino.core.dashboard.DashboardItem.render` now
yields html chunks instead of etree elements.  :func:`show_dashboard` and
:func:`show_menu` are now defined in :mod:`lino.api.doctest`, no longer as
methods of a request. The function :func:`lino.api.doctest.rst2menu` is now used
in :ref:`dev.admin_main`.

The menu of a multilingual site now shows the languages in the main menu, and
users can dynamically switch to another language than the on defined in their
preferences.


2021-01-08
==========

Fix #3921 (Journal entry mixes up debit and credit when creating the movements).
Fix #3924 (auto_compute_amount does not always work as expected).

Release to PyPI: XL 21.1.6.


2021-01-07
==========

Release to PyPI: Lino 21.1.1.

Optimizations: #3919 (No suggestions on clearable general account)
:meth:`FinancialVoucherItem.account_changed` didn't collect suggestions after
entering a clearable account.
#3920 (Lino registers the voucher even when exception happens).

Release to PyPI: Lino 21.1.2 and XL 21.1.5.

2021-01-06
==========

Release to PyPI: :ref:`xl` 21.1.3.

Fix some bugs in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.finan` : The choicelist for
FinancialVoucherItem.match didn't respect the suggest_future_vouchers settings
and therefore always showed all matches, including those that happen in the
future and won't get satisfied. Visible result: you select one of these matches,
but Lino then sets the field to blank. After selecting a partner, Lino didn't
suggest anything (because amount was 0.00, not None).
FillSuggestionsToVoucherItem caused an additional item to be created.

Release to PyPI: :ref:`xl` 21.1.4 and Lino 21.1.0

Fix :ticket:`3917` (Lino forgets the journal after saving a bank statement).

2021-01-05
==========

Miscellaneous minor optimizations for entering bank statements.
:class:`finan.DatedFinancialVoucherItem` now also fills the date field from
last_item_date. Trying to fix surprizing behaviour after
:class:`FillSuggestionsToVoucherItem`. Ledger movements in
:class:`accounting.MovementsByVoucher` are now ordered by :attr:`seqno`, i.e. by
their "natural" order of creation.

Fix a typo bug in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.cal` that caused Lino to no show anything in
cal.EntriesByGuest although the person was present in some calendar entry.

2021-01-03
==========

Add new item :attr:`vatless` to :class:`lino_xl.lib.vat.VatClasses`.

Fix :ticket:`3909`. After editing the entry_date of the last voucher of the
journal we don't want its number to increase.

2021-01-02
==========

Fix :ticket:`3906` (active_fields are disturbing for city and zip_code). In
:class:`lino_xl.lib.countries.CountryCity` the fields city and zip_code are no
longer :attr:`active_fields <lino.core.model.Model.active_fields>`.

Fix :ticket:`3905` (Purchase invoice from private person suggests VAT). This
was a bug in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.eevat` and :mod:`lino_xl.lib.bevat`.

Fix :ticket:`3907` (Cannot enter into "Expense" column of bank statement)

Release to PyPI: :ref:`xl` (2 versions)


2021-01-01
==========

Optimized column layout of :class:`lino_xl.lib.trading.InvoicesByJournal`.

Release to PyPI: :ref:`xl`.
